# **Prime Digital Academy Solo Project: BeginnerFit**

## **Description**

My fiancé recently told me she wanted to start going to the gym but she is concerned because she has no idea what she is doing and is afraid she might hurt herself, so I started looking for a fitness app she could use that is catered to beginners so she could follow the app and know exactly what to do so she doesn’t get hurt. After researching many various potential fitness apps for her, I found that there is a lack of apps that are user-friendly for beginners. They are all too complex for a beginner to understand. Because of this, I decided to build BeginnerFit, an app designed specifically for fitness beginners, with easy-to-follow workouts as well as video demonstrations of each exercise in the workout. Obviously anyone in the fitness world can use this app, but it is built especially for beginners. Starting on the login page, the user simply enters their username and password, and clicks the button to log in. From there, they are taken to a page that allows them to select from various workouts, depending on what muscle group they want to target that day. Each muscle group contains four different workouts. If the user wants to target legs, for example, they simply click on the “leg workout one” button. They get a nice encouraging pop up on the screen that tells them to have a good workout, and once they click out of that, they are on the page that contains the workout they selected. There is a video for each exercise that shows them how to properly perform it so they don’t hurt themselves, and they are able to check off each set as they complete them, so they never lose track of where they are in the workout. They are also able to enter in the weight they used for each exercise. Once their workout is complete, they can enter the date it was completed on, then click on the “I’m Done” button. Clicking on this button takes them to their workout history page. This page displays the most recent workout they completed at the top, as well as their previous workouts in the order of the dates they were completed on. The tables of each completed workout include the name of the workout, the exercises they completed, the weight that they used for each exercise, and the date the workout was completed on. If the user accidentally entered in an incorrect weight amount, they are able to click on the “edit weight used” button, change the weight to the correct amount, and click on “save edits” to update the table. They can also delete a workout from their history with the “delete workout” button if I wish to do so. Finally, underneath each workout history table is a chart that displays the weights they used for each exercise that they did in each workout. This allows them to keep track of which exercises are their strong points, and which ones are their weak points. It also allows them to go back and see what they used for weight in the form of a graph for any given past workout so they can very easily keep track of their progress and strength gains. 
 

## **Built With**

- JavaScript, React, Redux, Redux-Saga, Postgres, Node, Express, Bootstrap, and Passport

## **Acknowledgment**

Credit goes to Prime Digital Academy and my instructor Dane Smith for giving me the instruction and knowledge to make this project possible.
